# malaria_model
Mathematical modelling of the impact of Perennial Malaria Chemoprevention with Sulphadoxine Pyrimethamine (PMC-SP), an antimalarial intervention for chemoprevention of malaria in infants.


Malaria chemoprevention plays a key role in averting malaria disease and mortality. Sulfadoxine pyrimethamine (SP) is recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for perennial malaria chemoprevention (PMC) in areas with moderate or high transmission and low resistance to SP. In 2022, the WHO updated these guidelines to allow a more flexible approach to the number and timing of doses, and target age group. As part of The Plus Project, we aim to investigate the potential impact of different PMC with SP (PMC-SP) delivery schedules across upper-administrative units in Sub-Saharan Africa. We will explore the effects of coverage, transmission intensity and SP resistance across different age groups from age 0-2.5 years old. We also will explore the contribution of rebound infections to total incidence, which may occur after a child ceases to receive chemoprevention, due to lack of acquired immunity.  

Expanding upon an age-based stochastic model of P.falciparum transmission developed at Imperial College London, we model a range of PMC-SP scenarios. We utilise a genotype-specific model of SP protective efficacy which incorporates SP resistance data from available molecular surveillance surveys conducted since 2015. We also aim to incorporate the effects of seasonality and co-interventions such as treatment, ITNs and IRS in our modelling study. We present results for each country individually and Sub-Saharan Africa as a whole to explore how PMC-SP impact may vary across upper-administrative units and countries, considering spatial variations in transmission intensity and SP resistance.  

The model runs individually for each 1-day age group in both rural and urban settings within an admin1 unit. Outputs are merged based on WorldPop population sizes in each rural/urban setting. Incidence results are presented in both per person per year and per 1000 children units.
